Fear and Loathing is a movie about 2 protagonists:
Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo,
Duke is a journalist hired to do a story on the
Mint 400 Motorcycle Race in Vegas
and Dr. Gonzo is his attorney and fellow
connoisseur of drugs, drink, and debauchery
and both of them are here, hoping
to find the American dream in Vegas.
As we follow their journey, they find the
Vegas Strip to be pleasantly disturbing but
lacking in good moral or ethical code:
people are here to pass the time, trying to find
a bright spot in a dark life, with fake
smiles and fake happiness
They go from place to place, wreaking havoc
and chaos wherever they go until their trip
ends after a drug binge and other shenanigans,
with Gonzo and Duke leaving Vegas behind and
in turn the fear and loathing they felt there.
Now, this video isn't built for summarizing
film so much as it is for examining it, looking
at the things that contributed to the story
Because Fear and Loathing is based on a book
that is sort of-semi fictional written by
Hunter S. Thompson and based on his
experiences that he had in Vegas so long ago
Now the real events surrounding Fear and Loathing goes
something like this: Thompson
is hired by Sports Illustrated to do a piece on the Mint
400 Motorcycle race in the Nevada Desert, near Vegas
However, while he’s there what he ends up
doing is writing the notes for Fear and Loathing
in Las Vegas, the book the film is based on.
Now on his journey he was accompanied by Oscar
“Zeta” Cortez, a 300-pound-Chicano lawyer
who was a key civil rights attorney and is
portrayed by Benecio Del Toro
Now Cortez was a good friend of Thompson's and
was going to be interviewed by the journalist
to get details on the aftermath of Ruben Salazar’s
death, a Mexican-American journalist and civil
rights activist who would become a key figure
in an article by Thompson
called "Strange Rumblings in Aztlan”.
After visiting Vegas, Thompson would return
a month later to cover the District Attorney’s
Anti-Narcotics Convention which was in the
movie but is depicted as happening within
a weekend or so on the trip that Dr. Gonzo and Duke had
Now, there are a few other things that the
movie got right can be verified from secondary
sources like the Debbie Reynolds show that
Gonzo and Duke get kicked out of and the “Bazooko
Circus” casino which is actually the Circus
Circus Las Vegas Hotel-Casino in real life.
All of this is included and was directly or
loosely based upon actual passages from Thompson’s
book whose own ideas are reflected in Raoul
Duke.
You see, Raoul Duke is essentially Hunter
S. Thompson in all but name, as he also shares
Hunter’s views and stances: he's progressive,
counter-cultural, anti-authoritarianism, and filled
with patriotic passion for America and the
ideas that America is based on.
Fighting for justice in society when he felt
so compelled to do so although we don’t
really see this in the film.
something we do see throughout the film,
however, are references to figures and events
of the times: we see footage of what looks
like a bomber flying overhead a tropical jungle,
a reference to the Vietnam War, we
see Nixon’s appear on the TV, a reference
to then President Richard Nixon, and even
the Anti-Narcotics convention which did happen
in real life, and was instigated by Nixon’s
War on Drugs.
All of these are reminders of the failures of the Hippie
movement, but more than that it’s a peek
into the life and times of Hunter S. Thompson
in the wake of the 60s, of the Peace & Love
Movements, the Hippies and the things they
fought for.
Even the music that we hear throughout the
film are period appropriate and were released
within the timeframe of the 60s and 70s.
Some examples of these ‘older hippie songs’
are White Rabbit, One Toke Over the Line,
Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band
and Jumpin’ Jack Flash..
and basically the American Dream that Duke wanted
from the Hippie movement never really existed
in the way he wanted it to be.
The equality, the peace, the free love, the
recreational drug use, and pursuit of self
actualization amongst many other things that
were fought for by the movement
Got off the ground but never flew.
The American Dream and the ideals that America
is built on is all about success, equality,
and the happiness of the people for the people
And closest thing to this being made real,
being achieved in Duke's lifetime, on the Vegas
Strip is with the Bazooko Circus casino owner.
Who created his own circus allowing him to
make his own American Dream real.
Even if it's not the way Duke wanted it to
be.
The film ends on a bittersweet note by Duke
musing on the acid culture of the Hippies
and how it screwed them over:
physically and spiritually.
How Tim Leary, a prominent proponent of LSD-use
in the 60s brought about a generation of permanent
cripples, failed seekers, who never understood
the essential old-mystic fallacy of the acid culture
The desperate assumption that somebody or
at least some force is tending to the light
at the end of the tunnel.
Duke and Thompson were and will always be
in their own way and based on his writings,
we get a movie that reflects this attitude:
it’s very unique, it's strange, and mind-bending.
It’s sort of a dark comedy that uses techniques
that would feel at home in a horror movie.
Using weird angles, a wobbling lens, as well as disturbing imagery,
and audio manipulation and mechanized sets to
disorientate the viewer,
and put us in the golf shoes of Raoul Duke
and it’s not a film Hollywood would ever cherish,
and it only appeals to a niche audience.
and if you like the sort of film that's dark, that's weird, and, well, unique.
I'd highly suggest that you watch this film and if you've
already watched it once, well, watch it again
because this film is truly made made
for freaks in the freak kingdom.
With that being said, thank you so much
for watching, ladies and gentlemen.
If you enjoyed it leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on my latest uploads
Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go find my
own American Dream.
Until next time
Thank you for watching